The Key ID Information Type for the General Extension Items in Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY)
Network Working Group
RFC 4563
June 2006

Abstract

This memo specifies a new Type for the General Extension payload in
the Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY) protocol. The General
Extension payload in MIKEY is used to carry general extensions that
do not fit within the existing MIKEY payloads. The Key ID Information
Type allows carrying a key identifier within a MIKEY message.

Status of This Memo

This document specifies an Internet standards track protocol for the
Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements. Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2006). All Rights Reserved.

1. Introduction

The Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY) protocol is used for key
management in multimedia sessions. MIKEY supports several key
distribution methods and is extensible through the General Extension
payload.

This document defines a new Information Type for the General Extension
payload that allows a key identifier to be carried within MIKEY
messages. Key identifiers are useful for correlating keying material
across different protocol messages and sessions.

2. Key ID Information Type

The Key ID Information Type is defined for use in the General
Extension payload of MIKEY. It contains a key identifier that can
be used by the communicating parties to reference specific keying
material.

The format of the Key ID Information Type is as follows:

   Type: 3
   Length: variable
   Key ID Type: 1 octet
   Key ID: variable length

3. Use of Key ID

The Key ID Information Type may be included in any MIKEY message.
The receiver should use the Key ID to look up the associated keying
material in its local key store.

4. Security Considerations

The Key ID itself does not provide any security. The security of
the key identified by the Key ID depends entirely on the security
of the mechanisms used to distribute and protect that key.

Care should be taken when exposing key identifiers, as they may
reveal information about the keying infrastructure to an attacker.

5. IANA Considerations

This document registers a new value in the MIKEY General Extension
Information Type registry.

Authors' Addresses

Elisabetta Carrara
Royal Institute of Technology
Stockholm, Sweden
Email: carrara@kth.se

Goran AP Eriksson
Ericsson Research
Email: Goran.AP.Eriksson@ericsson.com