YANG Module Library
Network Working Group
RFC 7895
June 2016

Abstract

This document describes a YANG library that provides information
about all the YANG modules used by a network management server.
Simple caching mechanisms are provided to allow clients to minimize
retrieval of this information.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document. This document is a
product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents
the consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review
and has been approved for publication by the Internet Engineering
Steering Group (IESG).

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2016 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
document authors. All rights reserved.

1. Introduction

There is a need for standard mechanisms to identify the YANG modules
and submodules that are in use by a server that implements one or
more YANG data models. If a large number of YANG modules are in use,
then the YANG library provides a way to identify these modules in
a scalable manner.

2. YANG Module Library

The YANG module library provides a list of all YANG modules supported
by the server. Each module entry includes the module name, revision,
namespace, and a list of supported features and deviations.

3. Caching

A content identifier is provided so that clients can cache the
module list and only re-retrieve it when the content changes.
The server must update this identifier whenever the set of modules
changes.

4. Security Considerations

The YANG module library may expose sensitive information about the
server's capabilities. Access control mechanisms should be used to
restrict access to this information where appropriate.

5. IANA Considerations

This document registers a URI in the IETF XML registry and a YANG
module in the YANG Module Names registry.

Authors' Addresses

Andy Bierman
YumaWorks
Email: andy@yumaworks.com

Martin Bjorklund
Tail-f Systems
Email: mbj@tail-f.com

Kent Watsen
Juniper Networks
Email: kwatsen@juniper.net